<!-- 
This README describes the package. If you publish this package to pub.dev,
this README's contents appear on the landing page for your package.

For information about how to write a good package README, see the guide for
[writing package pages](https://dart.dev/guides/libraries/writing-package-pages). 

For general information about developing packages, see the Dart guide for
[creating packages](https://dart.dev/guides/libraries/create-library-packages)
and the Flutter guide for
[developing packages and plugins](https://flutter.dev/developing-packages). 
-->

# tarsier_env

A Dart/Flutter package for loading `.env` files and generating a Dart file containing environment variables with static getters. This package simplifies the management of environment variables and helps automate the process of accessing them within your project.

## Features

- Loads `.env` files and parses them into a `Map<String, String>`.
- Generates a `env.dart` file with static getters for each environment variable.
- Automatically inserts the import statement and `Env.init()` initialization in `main.dart`.
- Supports custom paths for the `env.dart` file.

## Installation

### 1. Add Dependency

Add the following to your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  tarsier_env: ^1.0.0
```
Then run this command:

```sh
flutter pub get
```

### Commands

The `dart run tarsier_env <command> <optional>` syntax maps directly with required commands (`generate`, `new`). Optional is when you use command `generate` for custom path.

- Generates a default `.env` file with basic content, including a placeholder for your app name. 
 Automatically checks if `.env` is listed in `.gitignore` and adds it if not already present.
```sh
dart run tarsier_env new
```
This will generate a .env file in the root directory with the following content:
```env
# AUTO-GENERATED FILE. 
# YOU CAN EDIT/ADD MORE KEYS AND ITS VALUE.
# Generated by tarsier_env script.

APP_NAME="Tarsier"
APP_ENV=local
APP_KEY=null
APP_DEBUG=true
APP_URL=http://localhost

...
```


- Generates a `env.dart` file containing static getters for environment variables from your `.env` file. Automatically imports `env.dart`.
Inserts `await Env.init();` in the main() function of `main.dart`.

    - If no path is provided, the generated file will be placed in `lib/env.dart`.
    - If a relative path under the `lib` directory is provided, the file will be placed in the corresponding subfolder.


```sh
dart run tarsier_env generate common/environment
```
This will create `lib/common/environment/env.dart` with the environment. After running above code, you can access the environment variables in your Flutter app as follows:

In your `main.dart`, ensure the `Env.init()` method is called before using any environment variable.


###  License
This package is licensed under the [MIT License](https://mit-license.org/).

### Suggestions for Improvement?
Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request on [GitHub](https://github.com/marianz-bonfire/tarsier_logger).

#### Why "Tarsier ENV"?
The tarsier, one of the smallest primates, symbolizes simplicity and adaptability—just like this package! 🐒
